ADR for integration identification (#458)
bitwarden/contributing-docs: docs/architecture/adr/0023-integration-identifiers.md

  to keep things running well for users while keeping out bad actors.
- Feedback to Bitwarden support teams on version usage is available.
- Bitwarden's support policy of a certain number of major versions can be more actively enforced.

### Negative Consequences

- Integrations will need to make the effort to register with Bitwarden and adjust their requests,
  potentially with brief disruptions for them.
- Very small latency may be added for the additional validations.

### Plan

Documentation will be provided on the Help Center or this contributing docs site indicating the
minimally-required request headers for all clients to provide when communicating to the Bitwarden
platform. Release notes will include mention of this and the future enforcement after three major
releases. Documentation will also be expanded to provide guidance on how unofficial clients should
form their provided client version specifically to accurately represent supported "windows" of
client-server interactivity.

Operations teams will perform the necessary development to validate that required headers are
present and enable its enforcement after that time; invalid requests will be rejected as a

> `400 Bad Request`.

Author: 400 is appropriate in my experience, and I see posts like https://stackoverflow.com/a/10576923/553125 suggesting the same. Not sure I understand what those "accommodations" are -- could you elaborate?

> `400 Bad Request`.

Author: Who is "we", and where is that done? At the edge? I think it's best we do things the most appropriate way here and expect clients to potentially adjust. I expect our own clients to be fine, and for others to align.

A separate point of missing vs. invalid is interesting to me though, and that could be 400 vs. 403 respectively.

---
adr: "0023"
status: Proposed
date: 2024-10-22
tags: [server]
---

# 0023 - Identifying Integrated Clients

<AdrTable frontMatter={frontMatter}></AdrTable>

> ## Context and Problem Statement

Reviewer: I don't feel these problems are specific. It's not clear to me how we plan on using these registrations. I think we need to describe what the real benefits of this monitoring and limitations would be.

### Negative Consequences

- Integrations will need to make the effort to register with Bitwarden and adjust their requests,
  potentially with brief disruptions for them.
- Very small latency may be added for the additional validations.

### Plan

Documentation will be provided on the Help Center or this contributing docs site indicating the
minimally-required request headers for all clients to provide when communicating to the Bitwarden
platform. Release notes will include mention of this and the future enforcement after three major
releases. Documentation will also be expanded to provide guidance on how unofficial clients should
form their provided client version specifically to accurately represent supported "windows" of
client-server interactivity.

Operations teams will perform the necessary development to validate that required headers are
present and enable its enforcement after that time; requests will be rejected as a `400 Bad Request`
when required headers are missing and a `403 Forbidden` when provided headers or their values are
not supported.

A process will be established for integrations to submit support tickets requesting a client

> identifier and secret. Customer Success will work with operations teams to register integrations and

Reviewer: I don't see how a secret could be used that is actually kept secret. Is there a clearer plan here?

Author: Eliminated in a2e7124771e12ec69748c00ed5bcc00883c3d7a6.

Documentation will be provided on the Help Center or this contributing docs site indicating the
minimally-required request headers for all clients to provide when communicating to the Bitwarden
platform. Release notes will include mention of this and the future enforcement after a set number
of major releases. Documentation will also be expanded to offer guidance on how unofficial clients
should form their provided client version to accurately represent supported "windows" of
client-server interactivity (or a mapping to the latest Bitwarden server release they have certified
or tested their integration against) as well as an appropriate [device type][devicetypes].

Operations teams will perform the necessary development to validate that required headers are
present and enable its enforcement after that time; requests will be rejected as a `400 Bad Request`
when required headers are missing and a `403 Forbidden` when provided headers or their values are
not supported.

A process will be established for integrations to submit support tickets requesting a client
identifier. Customer Success will work with operations teams to register integrations and deliver

> the needed information. Existing Bitwarden integrations will be issued their own client identifiers.
> Client details will be provided in requests to the Bitwarden platform, with the goal being the
> identification of scale and conformance per client; attestation and the guarantee that a client is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the needed information. Existing Bitwarden integrations will be issued their own client identifiers.
Client details will be provided in requests to the Bitwarden platform, with the goal being the
identification of conformance per client to the technical needs of the Bitwarden server infrastructure; attestation and the guarantee that a client is
```
